well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again it's Mental Health Month so
tonight we're gonna talk about suicide
telling you that now I'm also telling
you I'm not a mental health professional
I talked to one when I decided to do
this video and she basically told me
that I can't because you're not allowed
to be descriptive you can't paint a
picture of suicide that's actually
apparently very bad so I was at a loss
like how am I going to talk about this
and then I realized maybe the most
effective thing to do would be to tell
you why I want to talk about it because
I ran across some numbers some studies
and it blew me away
it blew me away now as I go through
these numbers I want you to keep in mind
the 22 a day now if you're not familiar
with that number it's a number of
veteran suicides it's a national
national discussion because of this okay
so here's the numbers this is what
caught my attention from 2010 to 2017
girls aged 10 to 12 who attempted to
poison themselves the percentage rose
268 % ages 13 to 15 rose one hundred
forty three percent this trend continues
until you reach age 24 huge jobs huge
jumps but we don't know what that means
you know the percentage going up well
yeah that's noticeable this is
definitely not statistically
insignificant but it doesn't give you an
idea of the scope of the problem so in
2018 girls aged 10 to 18 who attempted
to poison themselves that number is
60,000 if you were to break that down
per day it would be 164
now I know somebody out there right now
is going attempted poisoning drama-queen
cry for help first shut up second if it
is a cry for help they need help not to
be made fun of not to be marginalized
and give you another number help sink
this in 2009 to 2017 the number of
successful suicides rose 33% pause real
quick if you are contemplating this one
eight hundred two seven three eight two
fifty five that's the national suicide
hotline one eight hundred two seven
three eight two five five or you can
text 741 741 it's important because 16%
of teens will consider suicide it's not
a national topic though maybe that's how
we should frame it you're more likely to
lose your kid to suicide then you are
school shooting so why aren't we talking
about it why is this not a national
issue can't be politicized that's the
real reason who are we going to blame
that's the reason that's the reason it
isn't really being discussed as
Americans we want to know well what's
the reason this is happening it's not a
reason it's not how this works and it's
why I hate the show thirteen reasons why
just as that glorifies suicide paints it
is an event rather than the mess that it
is
normally suicide doesn't occur because
of a single thing it's a whole bunch of
little things that when taken together
seen insurmountable and among teens
would imagine that the fact that they
don't have much agency of their own they
can't fix the problems themselves
sometimes believes a metal loss they
don't have any control
but life is never without the means to
dismiss itself as far as thirteen
reasons why there's never a reason why
never it will get better promise
now communities I'm close to have been
dealing with this for a while for a
while and these are solution-oriented
guys
it is mostly men they got nothing
not really puppies in pot that's what
seems to be working for this community
service dogs and cannabis probably not
the route we should suggest to teens but
at the same time I think we need to
pause and realize teens today are facing
the same issues that combat vets are
this is the world we created this is our
society that's that's depressing
there's never a reason why and there are
a lot of things that can be done and
it's gonna have to be a lot of things
not one there's no silver bullet for
this it's not that you know
can blame it on music or TV or too much
time on the Internet it's not backed
then we have a society that doesn't
value our youth that's the main issue we
don't treat them as a burden type ID
eating losers rather than the resource
that they are they're the future and
they're poisoning themselves and it's
not even a topic of discussion because
well they don't matter it's the way
they're seen we don't put that effort
into it you know it's it's there's a
study that shows that if a non-parent
adult figure takes an interest in the
well-being of somebody who's in this
situation it can literally be the
difference between life and death there
is a whole bunch of information out
there about this but there's not one
solution just like it's not one reason
it's not one event we have a society
that is creating a suicide epidemic
among teens there's not going to be an
easy fix to this one guys
it's gonna take a lot but before any of
that can start we have to start valuing
the youth of this country anyway there's
never a reason why it's just a fault
y'all have a good night